2 tips: Scenarios and Sharing Taipy app on Colab (#594)
Avaiga/taipy-doc: docs/knowledge_base/tips/colab_with_ngrok/index.md

> # Sharing a Taipy Application on Colab with Ngrok

Reviewer: Please move this title in the mkdocs.yml_template file.
```suggestion
```

This article will show you how to put a Taipy Application on Colab, which is a Google Notebook 
platform. You'll also learn how to make it accessible through a public URL created with Ngrok.

> ![Monthly Production Planning](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_1.png){width=80%}

Reviewer: I believe we can remove this. It's a duplicate of part below.

> ## Problem statement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Problem statement
```

Author: I think we need to keep this and all others as H2, due to the fact that H1 should be only the main title name on the top of each article (md file).

For people who want to create strong graphical interfaces without needing to be an expert in GUI 
(Graphical User Interface), Taipy is definitely the solution.

In addition to coding with Python scripts, Taipy works seamlessly in 

> [Notebook environments](https://www.taipy.io/tips/taipy-gui/taipy-in-jupyter-notebooks/).

Reviewer: Please use a relative path to the doc page

You can use Notebooks on your computer and on platforms like:

- [Google Colab](https://colab.google/)
- [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/)
- [Databricks](https://www.databricks.com/)
- [Amazon SageMaker](https://aws.amazon.com/fr/sagemaker/)
- [IBM Watson Studio](https://www.ibm.com/products/watson-studio)

In this article, we will demonstrate how to put a Taipy application on Notebooks that are hosted 
on the Google Colab platform. We will achieve this by creating a public URL using 
[Ngrok](https://ngrok.com/).

![Problem statement](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_1.png){width=80%}

To begin, let's briefly explain what Ngrok and Google Colab are.

> ## What is Google Colab?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What is Google Colab?
```

[Google Colab](https://colab.google/) is a preferred tool for Data Scientists. It offers an 
advanced Notebook environment that provides access to powerful hardware, 
including CPUs and GPUs, essential for tasks like deep learning, without the need to buy 
physical machines.

However, Google Colab is cloud-based, so you can't directly see the graphical user interface 

> (GUI) of your web application. But don't worry, we'll show you how Ngrok can help solve this issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of your web application. But don't worry, we'll show you how Ngrok can help solve this issue.
```

> ## What is Ngrok?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What is Ngrok?
```

Ngrok enables you to share your application directly on the internet. It sets up a connection 
from your computer to the outside world through a public URL.

Please note that the URL is temporary when using the free version of Ngrok, but you can make it 
permanent by opting for a paid solution.

> ## Setting up your Taipy application on Google Colab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Taipy on Google Colab
```

Now, let's begin:

For our example, we will use a Sentiment Analysis Application from 

> [Taipy's Getting Started](https://github.com/Avaiga/demo-sentiment-analysis) guide. This 

Reviewer: This is not a getting started anymore. We should change the name.

Author: Changed to "Demo sentiment analysis"

> This application showcases multiple pages with a feature-rich graphical user interface.

Reviewer: I would move this after the Step 1 title. This is the code to download and copy to colab

> ## Step 1: Getting Started with Taipy and Google Colab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 1: Put your Taipy application on Google Colab**
```

Copy the Taipy Sentiment Analysis code into a Google Colab Notebook. This code creates a 
sentiment analysis web application using Taipy.

You can locate the complete code in this GitHub repository.

> When you run the Taipy code (please note the instruction: `Gui.run(...)` which initiates a web 

Reviewer 2: \`Gui.run(...)\` -> \`Gui.run(...)^\`

server), it will start a web application with a local URL. However, keep in mind that 
this URL is only accessible locally and cannot be accessed from the internet. As mentioned 
earlier, Google Colab is hosted on a server, not on your local machine.

> ## Step 2: Getting your Authtoken on Ngrok

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 2: Get your Authtoken on Ngrok**
```

On the Ngrok website (create a hyperlink to Ngrok website), create a free account.

> ![Getting your Authtoken on Ngrok](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_2.png){width=50%}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Get your Authtoken on Ngrok](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_2.png){width=50%}
```

After you've created your account, you can obtain your personal AuthToken. We require this 
AuthToken to establish the tunnel for our Taipy application.

> ![Getting your Authtoken on Ngrok](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_3.png){width=60%}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Get your Authtoken on Ngrok](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_3.png){width=60%}
```

Head to Ngrok website and obtain your tunnel Authtoken.

> ## Sharing our Taipy application in Google Colab with Ngrok

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Sharing with Ngrok
```

> The initial step involves importing Ngrok. To do this, let's install the Ngrok Python wrapper 

Reviewer: It sounds strange to me. It is not the initial step since the very first step is putting the app on Google colab.

called **pyngrok**.

- `pip install pyngrok`

> The next step takes place in the Gui.run() call. Taipy has an in-built Ngrok Authtoken reader. 

Reviewer 2: Gui.run() -> \`Gui.run()^\`

> We just have to add the `ngrok_token` parameter in the `run()` function and put the Authtoken 

Reviewer 2: \`ngrok_token\` ->\*ngrok_token\*
"in the" -> "to the" 
"put the" -> "set it to the"

provided by Ngrok.

> ![Sharing our Taipy application in Google Colab with Ngrok](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_4.png){width=100%}

Reviewer: Please replace the image by the python code block as follows:
```suggestion
    ```python
    Gui(pages=pages).run(ngrok_token="TaIpY19D3P10YaPp07C01aB199NgR0k93TaIpY19D3P10")
    ```
```

Reviewer 2: TaIpY19D3P10YaPp07C01aB199NgR0k93TaIpY19D3P10 -> \<Authtoken\>

Executing this last step will generate a public URL from Ngrok in the terminal.

> ![Sharing our Taipy application in Google Colab with Ngrok](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_5.png){width=70%}

Reviewer: Please replace image by a console block.

> ![Sharing our Taipy application in Google Colab with Ngrok](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_5_1.png){width=70%}

Reviewer: Please replace image by a console block.

Now, please click on the Ngrok Public URL link to access our application.

![Sharing our Taipy application in Google Colab with Ngrok](taipy_ngrok_app.gif){width=100%}

Congratulations! You have successfully created and launched our multi-page Taipy application 
from Colab!!

On the first page, you can enter a word or sentence and see its scores determined by an NLP 
algorithm. The results are displayed in a table and a graph. On the second page, you can upload 
a file and see the analysis of an entire text.

To learn more, visit our 
[Getting Started](https://docs.taipy.io/en/develop/getting_started/) page. You can also share 

> this application with anyone on the internet.

Reviewer: Why do we want to redirect to GS here?
If we want to keep it, please use a relative path.

> ## Update the delay parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Update the delay parameter
```

Our application, accessed through Ngrok, is updated at intervals determined by a delay parameter.
When we input a word or sentence, you may notice that it's not always registered correctly 
because the page refreshes several times. This happens because of the time it takes for data to 
travel over the internet, causing delays.

> To address this issue, you can modify the `change_delay` parameter in one of the following ways:

Reviewer 2: \`change_delay\` -> \*change_delay\*

- **Locally**: You can make changes to this parameter locally, directly within the Taipy visual 
  element.

>   ![Update the delay parameter](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_6.png){width=100%}

Reviewer: Please reaplce the image by python code block

- **Globally**: To adjust the delay for all of Taipy's visual elements.

>   ![Update the delay parameter](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_7.png){width=100%}

Reviewer: Please replace the image by python code block

> ## Reloading after modification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Reloading after modification
```

As it stands, when you make changes to a cell, there's no need to restart the kernel. You can 
simply rerun the Notebook to see your changes in action. However, in Ngrok's free version, you 
are restricted to three re-executions, which might require a kernel restart.

Nevertheless, Taipy offers built-in functions that enhance the notebook experience with Taipy. 
This eliminates the limitations of the Ngrok free version 
and enables easy updates with fewer re-executions required. You can learn more about this in the 

> [linked article](https://www.taipy.io/tips/taipy-gui/taipy-in-jupyter-notebooks/).

Reviewer: please replace the link by a relative path.

> ## Modification of the markdown with

Reviewer 2: \#\# -> \# ?
markdown -> Markdown

with... with what?

> `Page.set_content` here are the new cells to add:

Reviewer: This should not be a title. Right?

```suggestion
Modification of the markdown with `Page.set_content` here are the new cells to add:
```

Reviewer 2: Yes. That makes little sense.
I need to see the generated pages to understand the target.

1. Import Markdown:
   ![Modification of the markdown](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_8.png){width=100%}

2. Set empty new page:
   ![Modification of the markdown](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_9.png){width=100%}

3. Set content to `new_page`:
   ![Modification of the markdown](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_10.png){width=100%}

4. Update the `pages` definition:

>    ![Modification of the markdown](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_11.png){width=100%}

Reviewer: Please replace the images by some code blocks.

> ## Variable modification with `gui.reload`

Reviewer: This should not be a title. Right? 

```suggestion
Variable modification with `gui.reload`
```

1. Add this step
   ![Variable modification](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_12.png){width=100%}

> 2. Update your `Gui.run`

Reviewer: I believe we should preferably document `tp.run(gui)` instead of gui.run().
This also concern the picture.

Author: OK I will update it, thanks.

   ![Variable modification](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_13.png){width=100%}

3. Add the `gui.reload` function

>    ![Variable modification](Sharing_Taipy_Ngrok_14.png){width=100%}

Reviewer: Please replace the images by some code blocks.

After you've made your modifications, just rerun the cell where you made the changes and 
activate the reload function. Refresh your application page to view the updates you've made.

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Conclusion
```

Congratulations! You have successfully created and launched our multi-page Taipy application 
from Colab!

On the first page, you can enter a word or sentence and see its scores determined by an NLP 
algorithm. The results are displayed in a table and a graph. On the second page, you can upload 
a file and see the analysis of an entire text.

# Update the delay parameter

Our application, accessed through Ngrok, is updated at intervals determined by a delay parameter.
When we input a word or sentence, you may notice that it's not always registered correctly 
because the page refreshes several times. This happens because of the time it takes for data to 
travel over the internet, causing delays.

To address this issue, you can modify the *change_delay* parameter in one of the following ways:

- **Locally**: You can make changes to this parameter locally, directly within the Taipy visual 
  element.
  ```python
  page = """
  # Getting started with Taipy GUI
  <|layout|columns=1 1|
  <|
  My text: <|{text}|>
  Enter a word:
  <|{text}|input|change_delay=800|>
  ```

- **Globally**: To adjust the delay for all of Taipy's visual elements.
  ```python

>   Gui(pages=pages).run(change_delay=800,
>   ngrok_token="TaIpY19D3Pl0YaPp07C0laB199NgR0k93TaIpY19D3Pl0")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Gui(pages=pages).run(change_delay=800, ngrok_token=<Authtoken>)
```

- **Locally**: You can make changes to this parameter locally, directly within the Taipy visual 
  element.
  ```python

>   page = """
>   # Getting started with Taipy GUI
>   <|layout|columns=1 1|
>   <|
>   My text: <|{text}|>
>   Enter a word:
>   <|{text}|input|change_delay=800|>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <|{text}|input|change_delay=800|>
```

>   ```

Reviewer: @FlorianJacta Should the layout and the part be closed in the code?

Reviewer 3: Yes and no. I think what @marisogo tried to do is to show that you can change the delay for a visual element. I would only put the visual element   `<|{text}|input|change_delay=800|>` and not the rest of the code. (It also lacks the closing `"""`)

Reviewer: Make sense. Thx!

Here are the new cells to add:

1. Import Markdown:
   ```python
   from taipy.gui import Gui, Markdown
   ```

2. Set empty new page:  
   ```python
   new_page=Markdown("")
   ```

3. Set content to `new_page`: 
   ```python
   new_page.set_content(page)
   ```

4. Update the `pages` definition:
   ```python
   pages = {"/":"<|toggle|theme|>\n<center>\n<|navbar|>\n</center>",
         "line":new_page,
         "text":page_file}
   ```

## Variable modification with `gui.reload`

1. Add this step:
   ```python
   gui=Gui(pages=pages)
   ```

2. Update your `tp.run(gui)`:  
   ```python
   gui.run()
   ```

3. Add the `gui.reload` function:
   ```python

>    gui.reload()

Reviewer: @FlorianJacta How can this work? gui.run() is blocking, no?

Reviewer 3: Not in a Notebook context. Here we are on Google Colab so different cells can be executed. We could refer to the Notebook documentation now that we have it on the user man

Reviewer: OK Thanks.
